Spelling, Grammar, Sentence and Paragraphs

Module 2 Introduction 

2.1 Common Spelling Errors and Word Misuse (7min)

Learning Objectives
.Recognize spelling differences based on country
.Know how to select the correct word form
.Utilize correct spelling rules and exceptions
.Know common word choice errors and their corrections

British vs American English
.-ou instead of -o, as in colour vs. color
.-re instead of -er, as in centre vs. center
.-ise instead of -ize, as in realise vs. realize

Commom Errors
."I" before "e" except after "c"
-Thief, believe, priest
-Receive not recieve, ceiling not cieling
Or when sounded "EYE" or "AY"
-Einstein, stein, Heidi
-Eight, vein, veil
.Exceptions
-Neither, weird, foreign, leisure

note: Jef Raskin's poem (1995)

Pronouns and Contractions
.Pronouns and pronouns-linking verb contractions which sound similar
1.Who's vs. whose
Ex: Who's going to find out whose car is blocking the alley?
2.Their vs They're
Ex: They're very happy to see that their house was still there after the flood.
3.Your vs You're
Ex: You're going to get your money back

Yes, it's ok to start a sentence with ... And,However,But,Additionally... can be used as 
effective transitions words.

Commom Errors
Words we spell incorrectly because we pronounce them incorrectly:
.Diffrence VS Difference
Similar sounding words that have different meaning such as, accept/except
.Except for the parents, the team accepted the loss gracefully
.We will only accept properly addressed packages, except those that contain
brownies which will be opened and consumed if mis-addressed
Words that are nappropriately used to sound more formal such as, utilize/use
.She utilized the talents of the world processing staff to create more effective
registration forms
.At first he used a stick to prop open the door, then utilizing his enginnering
knowledge, he designed a no-fail doorstopper
.The witch used her cauldron to make a love potion, then utilizing its sound
reflecting surface, broadcast her haunting melody
Words that are used incorrectly such as unique
.Incorrect: The purple cow was very unique
.Correct: The purple cow was unique in her coloring as was the blue-striped
one standing next to her.

2.2 Grammar (10min)

2.3 Sentence Structure (7min)

2.4 Paragraphs (6min)

Module 2 Lecture Slides

Module 2 Resources

