Introduction

Module 1 Introduction (3min.)

--__--__--

1.1 Audience (11min.)
Learning Objectives
.Learn how to ensure the reader acknowledges the value in reading your document.
.Know how tone and style of language affect the reader's perception of your meaning
.Learn strategies for ensuring the audience is able to understand your message.

Start:  
.Think about your goals and responsabilities
.Remember your reader has lots of content to read

Your Job as a Writer...
.Prove the value of your document quickly

Starting your Document
1. Get right to the point
.. Be polite, professional and focused
2. Make reading the material easy
..Be clear, efficient and enjoyable
..Be personable and friendly
..Avoid overly formal language

3. Think about your audience
..Tailor your message appropriately

Who are you writing to?
.The reader's role in the organization or the relationship
.Value to reader

Writing for Senior Managers
-Be clear about what they need to know
-Ask questions about what they expect
-Review similar documents
-Find the manager's content expectations
-Address primary concerns and questions

Writing for Large and Diverse Audiences
.Write for general public (well-educated, but not knowledgeable on the topic)

Tips for General Audience Writing
.Be respecrful, clear and concise
.Write as if you are updating team member
.Avoid "tech-speak"

Point of View
.Use the Reader's Point of View
.Say something valuable
.Judge clarity

Tips for Tone
.Be likable and sound natural
.Avoid casualisms
.Avoid being overly formal and wordy
.Use names and personal pronouns
.Include courtesies
.State arguments positively
.Avoid sarcasm
.Use active voice
.Express goodwill by exhibiting concern for reader's viewpoint
.Assume their goodwill and cooperation
.Be judicious with use of humor

In summary, this lesson focused on your audience.
There position, there background and there expectations.
As you write carefully consider this audience, write from your
readers perspective. be clear to the point and respectful.
Consider your readers background knowledge and perspective
on the issue. And judege the clarity of your writing from the
reader's perspective. Finally, always write with a positive
active tone of voice, and express goodwill regardless of your message.

--__--__--

1.2 Message (12min.)

Lesson 2: What are you trying to say?
Learning Objectives

.Know best practice in language, style, format in business documents
.Learn and practice some strategies for achieving brevity and clarity in your writing.
.Know the purpose and structure of a good summary

Writing Style Best Practices
.Consider how you will be perceived
.Show value right away
.Write as if you are in conversation, be natural
.Show evidence, state facts
.Easy to understand

Clarity
.Simple language
.Avoid bizspeak
-Look in resources for a list of bizspeak terms to avoid
Examples of bizspeak:
."At your earliest convenience"
."In light of the fact that..."
."As per our telephone conversation..."
."Pursuant to your instructions..."
."Please be advised that..."
."Thank you for your courtesy and cooperation regarding this matter"
."Please do not hesitate to contact me regarding..."

book: Writing for Business by Jane Hicks "Fewer words capture more attention"

Be Brief, Polite, Informative
1. Get to the point
2. Active voice
3. Avoid fussy endings
4. Ruthless editing

Activity
Choose the clearrest and simplest form for each sentence.
1. As per our telephone conversation today, and at your earliest convenience, please
know that the CFO of the CIA at CC is on board with everything and thinks it will be awesome.
– As we discussed this afternoon, our Chief Financial Officer, Jane Smiley, agrees
that the Culinary Institute of America in Culver City would be an excellent partner
in the “Food for Kids” project.
– The CC CIA’s CFO thinks you rock!!!
2. Enclosed is the estimate for replacing the bubbler.
– Here is the estimate for replacing the champagne refrigerator.
– Here is the estimate for replacing the water fountain.
– Here is the estimate for replacing the garden sprinkler
3. It was kind of cold in town and there was a storm forming over the ocean.
– A cold storm hit the ocean.
– There was a storm coming in off the ocean and it was cold.
– Cold descended on the city as a storm brewed over the ocean.
4. I implore you to refrain from chewing on, consuming, biting or otherwise ingesting
the bellis perennis aka the common daisy.
– Please don’t eat the daisies.
– Do not chew, eat, bite, or ingesting the bellis perennis.
– Eating daisies can be deleterious to your health.

Summarizing
.Focused and specific
.Get to the point
.5W's: Who, What, When , Where, Why
.Write summary last

In summary, about being brief, clear, and to the point
importance of using straightforward positive language and the
use of active voice unless you're trying to soften your message.
Make it worth your audience as well to read your document by
making it easy to understand, and help them to see the benefit
within the first few sentences.
Support your arguments or requests with meaningful facts and evidence, 
and assume goodwill on the part of all parties.
Finally, whein you summarize, as you will in various locations depending
upon the document, you can start by writing a single sentence for each
paragraph that touches on the who, what, when, where, and why of each
paragraph being summarized.

--__--__--

1.3 Word Choice (8min)

.Learn colloquialisms and non standard language that is inappropriate for 
business writing.
.Learn how to address commonly used acronyms and jargon
.Learn to simplify language through straightforward sentence structure
and use of high impact words

Language
.Avoid nonstandard vocabulary and colloquialisms
.Do not end sentences with "at"
.Use contractions if they sound natural
.What out for homonyms, words with various forms and other commonly confused words

Activity
.Review "Correcting Commonly Confused Words"
 http://grammar.about.com/od/correctingerrors/a/comblogs03.htm
 
Avoid Acronyms
 
Avoid Jargon
.Business Jargon  / .Computer Jargon    
 ..Bottom Line      ..User friendly
 ..Spearhead        ..Bug
 ..Insourcing       ..Roubst
 ..Low hanging fruit..Blog
 ..Bandwidth        ..Tweeted
 ..In the red       ..Ubiquitous
 
Use High Impact Words
.Strong, impactful word choices
.Retain true meaning
.Avoid simplistic modifiers

A Few General Rules
1. Don't use multiple words when you can use one
2. Stick to idiomatic English
3. Don't drop articles
4. Remove words that aren't performing a real function
suggestions:
.Delete unnecessary prepositions
.Change "-ion"words to a verb
.Replace "is", "as", "are", "was" and "were" with stronger verbs
.Change "was hanging" to "hung"
.Change "is indicative of" to "indicates"
.Eliminate Padding!!!

Take the time to edit your writing and remove excess wordiness and padding,
and change colloquialisms and acronyms to more commonly used terms. Also, be
sure to use words that convey the exact meaning that you intend and avoid
less impactful words that are modified with weak adverbs such as very, really
and kind of.

--__--__--

1.4 Developing and Preparing Documents (5min)

.Learn two views on approaching the development of business documents
.Learn specifi approaches to organizing content of a document.

Traditional View
.Goal/Intent
.Brainstorm
.Organize
.Main Ideas
.Draft
.Revise
.Edit
.Proofread

Garner's Approach
*From HBR Guide to Better Business Writing
.Madman
.Architetct
.Carpenter
.Judge

Useful Tips from Garner
.Form raw information into meaningful, complete sentences.
.Just write and write fast without regard for rules and conventions.

Regardless of the approach to writing a document that you choose, you
should always begin by considering your goal, the purpose of your document
and your audience.
Keep these things in mind as you begin to write. Write quickly and write
without regard to the rules. just get the words on paper.
Plan to spend much more time editing and, revising than you do drafting.

--__--__--

Module 1 Lecture slides 

Module 1 Lecture 1: Audience
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/businesswriting/Writing_1_1.pdf

Module 1 Lecture 2: Message
https://spark-public.s3.amazonaws.com/businesswriting/Writing_1_2.PDF

Module 1 Lecture 3: Word Choice
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/businesswriting/Writing_1_3.pdf

Moduel 1 Lecture 4: Developing and Preparing Documents
https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/businesswriting/Writing_1_4.pdf

--__--__--


